this is the kind of video I don't think
any other channel does without a script
or without extensive editing but I'm
gonna try to do this freestyle the moral
of the story
hashtag spoilers is that peer review is
not what people think it is I got my
best girl here
Melissa off camera so I'm talking to her
in as much as I'm targeting the camera
to keep this spontaneous keep this off
script keep keep this let's let's keep
this train in a constant state of
derailment okay
there's there's a hilarious example I'm
gonna edit in a clip of this here of a
study that was published in multiple
respected peer-reviewed journals that
took the completely science fiction
concept of having magical superpowers in
the star wars movies and published it as
as peer-reviewed science in 2017 a paper
was written about midi-chlorians a
made-up microscopic life-form from the
Star Wars franchise the paper was a
mash-up of a Wikipedia article on the
mitochondria with star wars fiction even
including the monologue about Darth
Plagueis the wise from Revenge of the
Sith this article was published by four
journals the American Journal of medical
and biological research the
International Journal of molecular
biology open access the Austin Journal
of pharmacology and therapeutics and the
American research Journal of Biosciences
would anyone use this as proof that
molecular biology is a fraud that
biologists are corrupt yeah it's like
the technical made-up terms that are in
the Star Wars movies for how people yeah
you know in the movies they get these
magical superpowers there's some jargon
for that in there there says the
universe now I think this was of course
partly to to prove the extent to which
academic peer-reviewed is flawed even in
the hard sciences but I think this
example was chosen because any one of
those key terms if a person doing the
peer review just thought oh I don't
really know what that term means and
Google did a Google search would
immediately direct them to look
Star Wars fan page right so this is like
the you know the worst way to kind of
Lampoon you know the system but my point
in this video is not that peer review is
a good system and that the system is
broken but that people fundamentally
misunderstand what peer review is so
whether it's good or bad I think by the
end of this video you'll you'll have a
sense it's not what you think it is now
all right so Melissa you probably grew
up with some praise of the scientific
method this this is a real difference in
people's upbringing in the school system
like so did you did you learn the
scientific method is like the guiding
light of Western civilization get them
to look ok off the top of your head what
is the scientific method what why does
it matter was this well what was the
etiology or what was the ideal of the
scientific method that you you know you
grew up is a short memory there aren't
corrupting factors from one another do
this test variables and look for you in
terms of like romanticizing this for
kids or making giving it life in the
classroom were you given examples like I
mean sorry I'm thinking of examples I
learned much later in life there was a
famous example of a scientist in England
who discovered that cholera was being
spread by a public well or something
well or maybe was just Isaac Newton in
the Apple in the discovery of gravity or
something I mean was there something
given you to say like hey this was the
difference between the Dark Ages when
people you know Oh people didn't know to
wash their hands with soap and water and
the emergence we given some kind of set
of snares nothing sticky remember
right now they aren't coming to mind but
you know so right so my for my
generation this stuff was different
because partly cuz that terrible
education in Canada but partly because
the the dark cloud of the atom bomb was
really hanging over Western culture and
when you grow up that was that it really
dissipated like what is science and what
is the scientific method um
[Music]
you know the atom bomb and even the
Holocaust itself you know that because
the Holocaust you know it wasn't just
mass murderer it was technologically
sophisticated factory production you
know applied to mass murder and any gas
chambers this was a new technology you
know I just say the image of the
progress of science a new technology and
also sir just just keeping all the way
real the link between Nazi experiments
and vivisection in their own culture and
the push at that time try to end testing
of cosmetics on rabbits those things
added up this is long before I'd heard
of veganism or became vegan that that
added up to give science a really
menacing quality so I think that that
relief for my generation I was at the
end of that period time because after
about 1989 1991 all that stuff with the
atom bomb starts to disappear indeed the
memory of the Holocaust of World War two
was increasingly kind of put in a locker
it's not the you know because for me my
grandparents were still alive that
generation was still around so that the
the etiology of scientific progress I
think starts to change with the end of
the Cold War right well you you grew up
with more of a straightforward positive
view of scientific method and
for Western civilization it was a
project one I believe I was in
elementary school we actually went to
the top the roof of my school and we
dropped eggs that were encapsulated in
various contraptions to see if the egg
would crack or not and you know what
what was more effective like what
padding was more effective than this is
like re-enacting Galileo's experiments
with thorns and stuff yeah like
chemistry experiments too like you know
there are some well I think I think this
is part of you know the very definition
of modernity is the idea that
civilization is scientific progress as
opposed to the idea that civilization is
tradition you know which may well
include religion that you know with
tradition legends common you know common
fables that the the the fabric of
folkways that's a bit of a technical
term but still it's completely if you'd
ever put the folkways you know the you
known it's not folk culture folklore or
tradition but it's a scientific progress
is the very stuff of of civilization
itself as they say from my generation
that took a hit I think this this is the
illusion that people project on to peer
review so like what is the difference
between people dying of cholera and
people having you know modern hygiene
now again I think what were actually
taught in schools that the difference is
the scientific method that we discover
the necessity of sewage treatment and
that we had to reorganize our cities and
stop drinking river water that hadn't
run poo in it so what a human
civilization you know we learned the
hard way bit sir I don't feel that's
another famous example you know doctors
would handle sick people and corpses
right right and they would transmit the
disease yeah yeah yeah that's even
during the early life of Sigmund Freud
those basic concepts about transmission
of disease were still not properly
understood sorry I read a biography of
Sigmund Freud that don't let some of
that stuff in Vienna you know the the
what were then the breaking discoveries
when he was coming up as a student and
changing attitudes towards medical
science and progress um but that's not
what peer review is that's no interview
is at all neither in its function nor in
its dysfunction so is it unlike this
funny example of the Star Wars
pseudoscience getting in there's another
example I can put up a you know where
we're an author as scientists I suppose
as a joke wrote a hilariously awful
article which is kind of a Lampoon on
postmodern jargon I managed to get that
published even though it was completely
meaningless in this kind of thing
whether it's in the pure sciences or the
social sciences are not here so much
concerned with the dysfunction at the
real function and limits of peer review
so my perspective on this is partly as
someone who cares passion about politics
and I mean this comes up even when you
discuss something like Wikipedia how can
you possibly expect Wikipedia to have
Newt politically neutral information
over there their editorial process to
work no I
I'm not saying Wikipedia is the worst
probably Wikipedia is better than most
newspapers in terms of giving you a
somewhat balanced you know variety of
sources
but whenever you get in anything that's
really politically dicey you know and
you whenever you get to applica pd
article has a little lock symbol in the
corner you know there are people who
passionately care about this issue there
are people who are willing to tell lies
people willing to back up their lives
and they may well have sources in print
so I mean most extreme and easy case is
something like Holocaust denial
they have sources they can cite of
course those sources are dishonest and
bad and wrong but I mean you could have
an endless series of revision Wars of
editorial struggles at Wikipedia for how
you're gonna write you know the history
of the Holocaust so how can how can we
Cappy do work now by the same token so
I've been involved in politics basically
all my life I had a period of about ten
years where I was a scholar of Buddhism
no in case you're new to the channel I
was a very edgy scholar of Buddhism who
was interested in social political
problems so I didn't turn off my brain
within Buddhism I was genuinely
interested in for example the hit
slavery you know the plight of the poor
and all kinds of political and economic
issues you know past and present but I
was nevertheless a canonical Tara betta
Buddhist scholar how do you expect a
peer review committee in Japan that may
be primarily staffed by Buddhist monks
to have a what does peer review mean
when the people reviewing your paper are
Japanese Buddhist monks in a
conservative Buddhist university or even
they may literally be located in a
monastery where they have this this
meeting right if that's a little bit too
exotic for you you can change it to a
group of Catholic priests and you
present them with an essay I wrote an
essay about the history of slavery and
how the Catholic Church was involved in
all the terrible things you guys did and
and how the priests were involved and
they would torture people and the
priests would interrogate them yeah I
did all this historical research about
how you guys were now look I have not
been involved in journals of Catholic
studies I think it probably are some
journals of Catholic studies where we're
you know the editors even though they're
their true belief in Catholics may
really be people of merit and integrity
and they say hey this is important part
of our or history to publish but God
says it's not my experience of Buddhism
it's not right it's really not and uh
not to get too deep into this but I mean
an earlier video of myself talking to a
professor a current professor of
Buddhist studies well it was still
proposing that I go back and get a PhD
in Buddhism that door is still open to
me I really do have enough background to
very easily get get a PhD in that field
which would change my whole life from
this point out if I deign to do so and
one of the points at which he suddenly
got very defensive was where I simply
talked about bias within the field and I
backed that up you know I don't mean
racism necessarily in a conventional
lowbrow sense and what I said to him
then also even though it was for the
moment I said you know I think quite
convincingly and quite clearly I said if
you're talking to someone who's devoted
their life to Japanese Buddhism what is
their attitude towards a paper about Sri
Lankan Buddhism or Buddhism in Cambodia
I mean the geographic and linguistic
divisions here Tibet is unimaginably far
in both the far away both in language
and culture and history and politics is
a whole different set of questions from
Sri Lanka and Thailand okay so you know
but that those are exactly the forms of
editorial bias but my point here is peer
review doesn't work either way
peer review doesn't work if I'm a
specialist within Tibetan Buddhism and
all the reviewers are pious true
believing Tibetan monks and it doesn't
work if it's someone from Tibet
submitting their paper to a group of
reviewers who are all Japanese Buddhist
monks it uh turley breaks down and
breaks the parts right it's not even
that it break this is how it works this
is what peer review really is it's a
conclave of true believers giving their
imprimatur to studies that agree with
their Leighton biases and their
political and ideological agendas so
this has come up in debates about global
warming and anti global warming so
you've got ten academics with PhDs who
do peer review for a publication they
may be sincerely okay let's let's just
say we started a publication we had ten
professors who are all specifically
passionate about endangered species
conservation okay that's really their
background and then over time because
global warming is the big issue they
start peer reviewing papers on global
warming they probably don't have the
same way the Japanese scholar I'm what
expertise you can have relevant to my
paper about slavery probably none even
though it's a subtle shift this guy's an
expert in in endangered species
conservation all he sees is well this is
a study with a lot of complex math in it
and it's supporting a global warming
hypothesis again he is not paid to take
the time and go through those numbers in
detail believe me if I if I write a
paper for Buddhism and I'm quoting the
original poly I'm dealing with complex
linguistic and Esther nobody know I'm
going to come back this is all part of
part of the reality of peer review
versus editing peer review is not
editing it's not the same thing in terms
of making an in-depth edit and
evaluation and go
when checking your math or checking your
no no that's not gonna happen whether
you have 10 scholars who are sincere
sincere about wanting to ring the alarm
bells on global warming they're gonna
sit there and say okay good like this is
on our side it seems to me it looks the
data looks like data not gonna die on it
rubber-stamp imprimatur it gets
published and then the opposite is what
you also see there's going to be some
publication and they have managed to get
ten scientists who are against global
warming and they're rubber stamping
publications that come the other way and
within Buddhism I think that the saddest
and sickest example this Trudeau within
several videos on this channel is the
science the complete [ __ ]
masquerading as real science of
publishing peer-reviewed scientific
papers about meditation and that this
stuff is just as fake as in the old days
when Christians used to publish
peer-reviewed studies trying to prove
that prayer was effective the prayer was
effective in healing people who are in a
coma or that prayer had some impact on a
on a plant that was a real that was
published in all the newspapers they did
a study where like they have one set of
potted plants over here that nobody
prayed to and that another set were that
true believing Christians come in and
pray to the plant and see which plants
grew better it's like laughing with the
friend of I was like even if this is
true like why do you worship this God
that you think makes a five percent
difference and how rapidly uh you know a
daisy grows out of a pot or something
Wow
so you know that that kind of junk
science has always been around and this
is this is not peer-review failing to
work this is how peer review actually
works so one of my perspectives on this
is because I used to work as a
professional editor of academic
nonfiction
and I was offered that job again in
Taiwan my whole life would be different
if I'd taken it but and I had authors
from all over the world you know mostly
white Europeans but also some Asians had
quite a number of Japanese authors maybe
one from Thailand one from
neasha because they were mostly white
Westerners but even then you saw a
really deep culture like the difference
between a German academic and a French
academic and an American academic it's
remarkable and I deal with all these
people at phd's they'd be sending me
their manuscripts or their book chapters
and I'd be making the book but I'd be
going through and really editing and one
of the guys I have to get across the
mists no editing is not peer review they
were used to peer review we just wanted
to scrap it before right and the peer
reviewer isn't paid a salary and the
peer reviewer doesn't correct
grammatical error I mean they they may
you know if they if they go through it
in detail a peer reviewer is not going
through and like this is the type of
error of catch all the time you have the
date 1763 in your essay and I just take
the time to look it up oh no no no you
meant 1673 all the time those are in
there I ice I'm an editor not a peer of
your I stop and I challenge you okay
when you said this about the government
policy at this time but in this section
of the essay you said this instead
there's a good
that's editing and the editors role has
withered up and died because basically
the the publishing industry no longer as
though the money for it and nobody's
willing to pay for it you have to pay up
an area di't hardworking person with
attention you'll do it sorry on this
clear editing is also not copy editing
right copy editing a separate word then
so does refer to as sub editing copy
editing is where you just check for
spelling errors and commas in the wrong
place and you know formatting errors and
hyphens this kind of stuff real editing
real editorial is where you actually
challenged I say okay you said this here
there's no foot no how do you know that
how do you back it up everyone got that
furious with me because I just pointed
out that he presented us it look you
present an interesting argument here but
you don't have any footnotes or context
explaining it I don't know to what
extent this is your original work or if
this is something that's appeared in
five other books before I need so he was
furious he called down he calmed down
and eventually we had several emails
back and forth trying to iron this I was
like look we're going to publish this
you know you can't claim to be inventing
the wheel with research that's not
really a research and and this sort of
thing so this is this is another of
misconceptions now one of things people
said about me back when I was a scholar
of Buddhism I'd never seen this work for
is it oh that aisel misery
he's an origin
he he analyzes things by looking at
their origins was it was interesting
comment about me okay um what is the
origin of peer review I have brought
this up with many many professors at a
very brief story about it on my old blog
and every single time professors were
astounded to learn this okay
peer review originated in the United
Kingdom I was just a England Scotland
and Wales but it really especially has
to do with Scotland this came up a lot
we were living in China I was explaining
to my students that the real turning
point in the history of Education in
Europe actually took place in Scotland
not England and then England caught up
you know several generations later but
Scotland started having these learn in
societies in places like Edinburgh and
Glasgow they sort of that were making
remarkable scientific progress and
discoveries also the Medical School in
Edinburgh and so on but of course also
in other fields even like sociology you
know stuff that's more Social Sciences
what have you they were doing and
publishing a lot of original research
and up to that point they had ye all the
sensors office in England there still is
the office of the censor there is still
one man in England who has the title
censor it's an official government post
there it's not just we just complained
about censorship as an abstract concept
that's actually a job still today and in
front of an NGO to be the censor he's
one man and this one man you know I
assume has a few secretaries and
assistants what have you could not
oversee these scientific publications
and a couple centuries earlier in the
Dark Ages you could you know and that
was a job sorry this is also links to
the different the split between
Protestantism and Catholicism in Europe
because before you know when England was
was Catholic before Henry the eighth and
it's put away that job was was really
handled by Rome and for many parts of
Europe it continued to be so when
Copernicus started Pablo sorry it's
really in one publication from
Copernicus but he wrote this one
important work and he published it only
in Latin not any vernacular which I
think he knew that was to avoid
censorship it was handed over ultimately
it was it was the Vatican
it was the cathode
he's in Rome who would decide whether or
not to suppress it and an historian went
in and did the did the detailed analysis
it would have been censored but
apparently the want the reviewer who
mattered the viewer who was ringing
alarm bells cuz you had to read the
Latin carefully there's a lot of math we
had to do with observations of the
movements of the stars and planets and
explain this things he had to be really
good at both Latin and math to figure
out how subversive this work from
Copernicus was but the one guy who
figured out in Rome he died he died of
natural causes at the right time so the
book wasn't censored so yeah so I just
say that the censors roll one
Protestantism cuts you off from the
Catholic tradition of censorship and
serving again that that battle then
get's fought generations later by
Galileo Galileo is the murder for modern
science in that way in his own peculiar
historical character right so in England
this becomes England's own responsible
in Scotland's own responsibility and
they don't want to do it so they set up
a system of decentralized censorship and
that is the origin of peer review the
role of the peer reviewer at its
inception is still today was simply to
review the work and rubber-stamp it that
there was nothing objectionable to the
government it was taking was developed
very literally as taking the role of
censorship and farming it out to
established scholars you say okay well
you remember at the establishment you're
already a professor or something you're
some kind of respectable scientist you
know the kind of thing the government
wouldn't allow to be published or that
we'd asked to be deleted or rewarded or
something so two of you or three of you
go through a process where you guys read
it and you okay it and if you okay it
it'll go ahead and of course implicitly
if something offensive to the government
was published you know you know whose
head could we know who could be held
responsible for this okay
so peer review in terms of its origins
was created as a system of censorship
it's not created as a system of
scientific fact checking fact-checking
as part of the editors role in fact
checking is very time-consuming and
today nobody wants to pay for
as you see in terms of the decline in
the quality of journalism and everything
else mr. but just imagine I used to do
this for a living but if I'm handed
something and it makes a bunch of
complex claims but what was going on in
the government of Vietnam in 1984 you
know it's very hard to sit there and say
okay you know is this person accurately
reporting because I'm pure reviewing an
article about no sir I'm not here
reviewing of anything of anything an
article about what was going on in
Cambodian politics and it briefly
mentions a bunch of stuff about what was
going on in Vietnamese politics which is
of course links I start checking into it
and I'm like look this this doesn't add
up like you know where did you get this
from you got this from Breitbart news
agency notice from the Vietnamese
equivalent a Breitbart is something that
this doesn't match up with the basic
facts but here's the difference with
real editing right real editing is also
a dialogue and discourse the pure of you
has none of that peer review is either
it's approved or it's rejected period
and that's because it developed the
system system censorship what you really
need is exactly say look you know and
you can even be played by said look I
like your article there's some good
things about it but you have this one
paragraph but what was happening in
Vietnam in the early 1980s and you know
that this doesn't check out for me I
mean so what are your sources here or
what are you thinking or could you
rewrite this because I mean in terms of
the basic facts I don't I don't see how
this message of the first era and though
you went back to you you know what
either they'll do it or they refuse
either they back can back it up or they
can't that is the process of
fact-checking and editing you have it
has to be back and forth with the author
that's that's utterly lacking right now
sorry the final I mean I could I could
give many examples just from my own life
about how pure review works as well I
have me an a peer reviewer I have no PhD
I have peer reviewed multiple articles
and I'm good at it
No partly because I have this background
in an editing partly because I'm
incredibly cynical about what peer
review is and what it ought to be I had
a situation in Cambodia where I wrote an
article it's still on the Internet
the article deals with racism
imperialism mass murder it's about I
mean again say I was a scholar of
Buddhism but I dealt with real issues
and deals with even the origin of Nazi
ideology in Buddhist studies so the
connecting Buddhist research and
Orion race theory and and racism in
Western Europe which is fascinating
there's a lot of really politically
hard-hitting stuff here coming out of
Buddhist studies and you guys self why
is it you don't why you don't see
hard-hitting stuff like that coming out
of academia or what a studies and put
his publications it's because peer
review is a system of censorship reckon
this article okay so this article it's
and is especially relevant to to
Cambodia and I was gonna publish it in
quite a humble publication that's based
in padam Penh Cambodia now I thought it
would go ahead for a number of reasons
that publication the reviewers are not
Buddhist monks I don't think they're
they're Buddhist period they're a bunch
of old white men with PhDs from France
I would guess all of them are French
maybe one or two or Australian but the
the peer reviewers are probably all
conservative white French scholars based
in in thumpin Cambodia so they get this
essay and the the lead editor the the
senior academic who's in charge says
right away he reads it he says wow this
is brilliant this is important we're
gonna we're gonna publish it great
months and months go past I'm living in
Cambodia this time I'm busy with other
things and then I get back to him and
for me the main reason to publish them
was that they would everything they
published and that in that publication
they published in both English and
Cambodian and I really wanted to reach
the Cambodia that's what I cared about
frankly and a humanitarian when I get
back to Macomb once there and say okay
so what's what's happening with the
translation cuz you know I'm really you
know what I really care about is the
human and he says well you know it's
complicated and he says if you want to
speed up the process you could pay a
translator you could start working with
transfer because I know again I'd have
to talk the translator would have
questions okay what do you mean in this
passage is translating academic English
in to Cambodia it's not easy there'd be
a lot of QA so well you can get start
with the translator and up to so much
money will pay you back like you know
what this is this kind of thing so he
said because we have a budget for
translation but it's probably better if
you want to speed it up so that's how
certain he was he was gonna he was gonna
focus today I start talking to
translators months go past and he breaks
down and admits to me the reality of the
situation
he kept presenting it to peer review
they kept rejecting it for purely
nationalistic reasons my essay was
insulting to the memory of the French
Empire in the 21st century this is in
the 21st century right when you think
anti-imperialism and sort of left-wing
white guilt is like this so yeah I
thought okay I thought I had a secular
Western non religious I thought because
I knew this would not get published by a
Buddhist studies conservative pitously
this was too insulting to the memory of
what they thought of us the greatness of
the French Empire in Cambodia and
Vietnam because France conquered
Cambodia and Vietnam and said oh you
know it worked out great if you heard of
the Vietnam War
it's kind of like the the appendix to
that disaster right okay and so what he
kept - he kept giving it to a scholar
and they reject it and then he would
crumple up the record that he'd given it
to a peer reviewer because you know like
it's supposed to be just given to two
peer reviewers and if they both say no
it's rejected right and he would pretend
he hadn't done that and he would try
with another scholar than others contra
and he tried with the whole college so
whatever get most most of these but
maybe they have ten people with PhDs may
be fewer maybe six or something right
and every single one of them rejected it
out of pure political bias not even
religious bias right and that this shows
many things about the proof is because
this guy the one doing the review his
name is Michelle and tell he's that in
Alko in France he's a major scholar in
his field he's probably the number one
scholar on Cambodia he recognized the
merit and importance of my article so
why can't he go ahead and publish it why
can't why even if there are problems
with it
why can't he start engaging with me as
an editor because it's fine he can
challenge me the same way I've been
describing an editor challenge someone
he could go through and say okay well in
this paragraph of where he coming from
or how do you back this up fine I'm all
for that scrutiny what the process needs
is scrutiny but peer review is not
scrutiny and again even this joke
example it's a real example of the
starwars science fiction [ __ ] being
published in a peer-reviewed scientific
journal
it shows peer review is not a system of
scrutiny it's not a system of content
driven editorship it's not a system
scrutiny it is just a system of
censorship I've seen this again and
again in my life I saw it when I was
doing work on social conditions in
Cambodia I saw complete fiction
published in the lancet the lamp said
The Lancet is the single most reviewed
single most revered peer-reviewed
journal in medicine and I was going
through their stuff on Cambodia that was
linked to the research I was doing
social science research in Cambodia my
research involve AIDS and a lot of other
social problems and the medical care
system and I was finding stuff just like
the the article about Star Wars things
that I could prove were false just by
taking them in googling them we think oh
that doesn't seem right let me google it
let me check these couple reports M&S
and strong because nobody's doing that
sorry so guys that's that's my
conclusion peer review is not a system
of scrutiny it's a system of censorship
it's not the scientific method it's not
even the writers guild method provides a
script
I know people believe in peer review as
the difference between light and
darkness between what's legitimate and
what's illegitimate what I'm inviting
you to imagine here is that Buddhist
studies is not so unique the important
research the important message the
important findings I had to share in in
Buddhist studies were impossible to
publish in Buddhist studies today in the
21st century and it's worth noting that
field was way more open to new ideas new
discoveries in the 19th century this is
true even about about First Nations
Studies and so it's one one for example
but these each one of these examples is
really important to me so you know
Buddhist studies in the 19th century
soldiers with no PhD in no formal
education who were deployed in the
British Empire would dabble in
archaeology and research on Buddhism and
they would send the
has letters to whatever now peer-review
journals to academic journals their
findings in the film brilliant and
important stuff I think one reason for
that was that a lot of the soldiers had
good translators they probably the best
translators in the British Empire so
they'd be going out and they'd be
looking at ruins and they'd be saying
well some of the villagers say this true
and used to be this but we excavated we
found that or we talked to we talked to
some Buddhist monks over here and they
told us isn't that you had incredibly
valuable findings being published again
without peer review sent in as
handwritten letters from soldiers on the
on the outermost parts of the British
Empire but it was really important vital
stuff that was getting published
there was a hypothesis I mentioned this
to my girlfriend recently were talking
about Korean ship way we still look at
the possibility of studying First
Nations languages here in this apartment
a destroyed ship we're talking about
whether or not we could go back and
study creative way Algonquian languages
that language is indigenous to Canada
there was this hypothesis that was
published many many decades ago so I
think it was the 1970s and today it
wouldn't be polish because it was it was
just a hypothesis it was a hypothesis in
the purest sense of the word this guy
looked at the linguistic data for all
the native peoples in North America and
South America the whole mega continent
North and South America in the Caribbean
and he drew lines in a map
and he said hey look I don't really have
any evidence but based on comparative
study of these languages this is my
theory of how how the actual migration
took place when these people first
settled northern South America all right
forty years later or something DNA
research bang confirms that his
hypothesis was right on it's such an
important article but it was just a
hypothesis
it was just speculation and that's
exactly what peer-review excludes now
again syrup all the problems you have
with Wikipedia are infinitely worse with
peer-review they're worse both
positively and negatively they're worse
in terms of what they will publish
they're worse in terms of what they
exclude they're worse because they
utterly lack the back-and-forth of
challenging the person said well do you
have a source and this can you improve
this can you rewrite this it's a single
stage process and exactly the areas
where
Wikipedia is impossible to trust like
politics like religion but some of these
examples I'm giving are hard sciences
even linguistics you know physics and
chemistry and what-have-you in exactly
those same areas where Wikipedia is
unreliable peer-review itself is worse
than useless guys if you watch this
video thank you for spending the time
with me any less thoughts babe what is
civilization is civilization the
aggregate some of our traditions or you
know cultural assumptions our beliefs
are our folklore and our national
characteristics or is it scientific
progress well one of the fundamental
problems of scientific progress is that
it is elite it is elitist it's something
the vast majority of us can't
participate in in any meaningful way and
peer review I think is another example
of one of these aspects of academia
whether it's in the sciences or the arts
you know and anything anything do that D
mia where it's it's remained behind the
curtain it's remained buying a veil of
instability it's been glorified and
glamorized in many people's minds just
because if it's just slightly out of
sight and I think that will change for
one reason and that one reason is what's
now called sousveillance so
sousveillance is the opposite of
surveillance when I first went to
Cambridge University England they were
just experimenting with taking
professors lectures and dumping them on
YouTube basically dumping them all on
the internet and I mean one of them was
a famous famous left-wing professor
giving a lecture on Marxism he'd
probably give him the same lecture for
20 years and you know it sounds
impressive oh this great professor he
has a PhD he has peer-reviewed articles
and you know lecturing at this
incredibly elite incredibly expensive
incredibly hard to get into university
and the lectures were garbage
sousveillance changes everything there's
a facebook project called film your
Marxist professors so far it's it's
garbage they're not doing anything
they're not but but the concept of that
is very powerful we all know if you've
been university you know what it's like
to be in the classroom with a professor
who's saying something so crazy and so
stupid or so ill-informed and so
ignorant that you can't believe it's
being said in the classroom and you're
powerless to challenge it because
there's an absolute unequal relationship
of authority well now as never before
you can film that and you can put it on
YouTube and this will challenge academia
in a way that it has never been
challenged before the power of
sousveillance the power of film your
Marxist professors you know to shake
academics out of because most of the
suppressors are saying crazy dumb things
it's because for the last 20 years they
dug down into a narrower and narrower
little trench they're just within
radical left-wing women's studies or
indeed the Buddhist professors they're
within this little narrow trench where
nobody challenges how insane their ideas
about Buddhism are not even other
Buddhists they don't even hear it from
mainstream Buddhism or something they're
working within this within politics but
even within the sciences they're lotzie
we need to talk to people in the STEM
fields there are a lot of horror stories
about about awful professors in science
I think what is ultimately going to
change peer review in academia itself is
the camera the miniature camera the
culture of the internet YouTube
I think sousveillance is going to mark a
line in the sand between the past and
the future of what we do in higher
learning and and then and only then will
freedom of speech come to academia and
maybe we can see a fundamental reform in
the way peer review and the progress of
human knowledge in every work
there at that time
[Music]